# DLT in the Real World

## Q: Someone leans over at a meeting and says to you “DLT is perfect for enabling payment-on-delivery in the construction sector.” Are they right? Is it as simple as it sounds?

DLT can be a key enabler for payment-on-delivery for the construction sector however it is not as simple as let's say building an app for e-commerce. Sure materials can be paid on-delivery so that it is easier to track both ownership of said materials as well as order settlements of these materials but even before reaching that state what has to be made? The construction supply chain is very complicated because the entire value chain somehow looks like a web rather than a chain. Every movement in manpower, materials, timelines, has to be bounded by contracts just to secure every entity that is part of the project from each other. This means that in order for a DLT-based application to work in the construction space, each contributor in the entire value chain has to be on-boarded. You will need engineering and architecture firms on board, contractors, suppliers, law firms, tech company that will be in charge of the DLT-based software to be used by these players, and even the government for making sure that all entities that are part of the projects are legally capable to be part of the project as well as auditing all that is happening in this project. Imagine having a meeting with all of these different entities/organizations and needing to get them to agree on why sharing data will be beneficial for them and why having a distributed ledger will be helpful instead of removing their advantage as the sole entity that has precious information. 

The technical implementation of this is actually very easy but the political aspects, legalities, business relationships, and the incumbent's way of doing work is a much larger hurdle making it a very complex thing to embrace not just in the construction sector but in any industry vertical.